UM

Names: Hunter Purevbayar & Brandon Shih (hpurev01 & bshih01)

What Works:

segment.c/h, word.c/h, instruction.c/h, run.c/h, and um.c all work to the
extent of our testing.
 
What Doesn't Work:

Everything seems to work to the extent of our testing.
 
Design differences:

We decided to create a new word.h module in order to take care of handling the
words from the given input .um file. We also decided to change where some of 
our parameters are declared within the Segment init(FILE *) and 
void run(FILE *input) functions so that it would be easier to manage. Initially
we were using a malloc'd array of words to store the list of words inside of 
the segment. We decided to switch to using a Hanson UArray since it handled 
some exceptions and also had methods inside that made implementation a lot 
easier. This however, caused some issues in advent.umz so we decided to revert
back to using our original structure using a struct defined segment and malloc
the memory for the words manually.

Architecture:

Our universal machine consists of 4 modules with one main module. The modules 
are segment, instruction, word, and run modules. We used a Hanson sequence 
(Seq_T) of segments, which are malloc’d arrays of uint32_t word instructions 
with a specified size. Segment 0 is always stored in the front of the Hanson 
sequence which is where the program runs. The flow goes by first
the um module calling the run module. The segment sequences and ids are 
passed onto the respective instructions in the instructions module to execute 
the user's opcodes while the word module is called during the register 
initialization. When trying to map/unmap/load/store segments, 
the segment module is called.


Time:

Our universal machine takes about 1.63 seconds to execute 50 million 
instructions. We estimate this by timing how long it took to run
midmark.um which has approximately 85 million instructions. It was
able to finish that in 2.77 seconds. This means that it takes about
1.63 seconds to execute 50 million instructions.

UM tests: 

map-unmap-store-load.um
        This unit test tests the mapping, unmapping, loading and store
        function all at the same time. First it tests to see if the segment
        is mapped correctly. If it is, then the segment can be used to
        store a word that contains a character. Then the loading function
        can be used to retrieve the word. After that, the unmap function is
        called to see if it is freed correctly, then the segment ID is recycled
        to test the Stack of IDs. This is done by mapping a second time and
        doing the same store and load process to see if the segment functions
        properly. Then it all ends with the halt command.
add.um
       This unit test tests the um add command by putting values into
       the register B and register C. Then adding B + C which returns a
       uint32_t. This uint32_t is casted to a character and printed as an
       ASCii 'b' if it runs correctly. 
divide.um:
        This unit test tests the um division command by putting values into
        the register B and register C. Then dividing B / C which returns a
        uint32_t. This uint32_t is casted to a character and printed as an
        ASCii 'a' if it runs correctly.
divide0.um:
        This unit test tests the case for the divide by 0 error. This should
        be caught be an assertion in the division command.
multiply.um
        This unit test tests the multiplication command by putting values into
        the register B and register C. Then multiplying B * C which returns a
        uint32_t. This uint32_t is casted to a character and printed as an
        ASCii 'x' if it runs correctly.
nand.um
        This unit test tests the nand command by manipulating values using
        arithmetic to ensure that the numbers are within the 0 to 255 range
        of printable ASCii values. The value is not a letter, however there
        is an exception that catches non ASCii characters, and this test did
        not catch. This means that the character was successfully printed in
        the range of 0 to 255.
halt-verbose.um
        This unit test tests the halt command with output and load. 
        The functions load characters into registers, prints them out, 
        and ends the program by halting.
halt.um
        This function tests the halt command by calling halt.
input.um
        This unit test tests the input command by inputting r3 and outputting.
        Then loading the value in r1, outputting and halting. This should 
        input r3 as planned.
load-prog.um
        This unit test tests the input command by calling loadprog after 
        calling loadval in registers r1 and r3. T
conditional-move.um
        This unit test tests the programs ability to move register B to A
        or not depending on the value of C. When C is 0, the expected output
        is 'f' since 0 is the equivalent of false. When C is anything else,
        such as 1 or 2, then the output is 't' indicating that a conditonal
        move has happened.
print-six.um
        This unit test tests by loading, adding values and printing the
        registers.

Analyzation time: 3 hours
Preparation time: 5 hours
Solving time: 25 hours